.TH BASHACKS 1
.SH NAME
bashacks - functions to hack with bash

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bh_asc2dec [char]
.TP
.B bh_asciitable
.TP
.B bh_asm2sc [-f arch] [filename.s]
.TP
.B bh_asmgrep [regex] [filename]
.TP
.B bh_asminfo [instruction]
.TP
.B bh_bin2dec [binary]
.TP
.B bh_bin2ip [binary ipaddress]
.TP
.B bh_bkp [filename]
.TP
.B bh_charcalc [char] [operator] [number]
.TP
.B bh_dec2asc [decimal]
.TP
.B bh_dec2bin [decimal]
.TP
.B bh_dec2hex [decimal]
.TP
.B bh_dumpmem [pid] [output filename]
.TP
.B bh_find [mime-type] [directory]
.TP 
.B bh_hashes [filename or files]
.TP
.B bh_hex2bin [hexadecimal]
.TP
.B bh_hex2dec [hexadecimal]
.TP
.B bh_hex2str [hexadecimal]
.TP
.B bh_hexcalc [hexadecimal] [operator] [hexadecimal]
.TP
.B bh_hostcalc [bit mask]
.TP
.B bh_intel [on|off]
.TP
.B bh_ip2bin [ipaddress]
.TP
.B bh_ip2geo [ipaddress ou domainname]
.TP
.B bh_isalnum [string]
.TP
.B bh_isalpha [string]
.TP
.B bh_isascii [char]
.TP
.B bh_isdigit [string]
.TP
.B bh_isgraph [string]
.TP
.B bh_islower [string]
.TP
.B bh_ispunct [char]
.TP
.B bh_isupper [string]
.TP
.B bh_isxdigit [string]
.TP
.B bh_matrix
.TP
.B bh_md5 [string] 
.TP
.B bh_myip 
.TP
.B bh_pow [pow] [decimal]
.TP
.B bh_rotall [string]
.TP
.B bh_rot [displacement] [string]
.TP
.B bh_sc2asm [-m arch] [string]
.TP
.B bh_shl [number] [bit]
.TP
.B bh_shr [number] [bit]
.TP
.B bh_sitedl [url]
.TP
.B bh_skel_c
.TP
.B bh_skel_python
.TP
.B bh_str2hexr [-x] [-0x] [-c] [-s] [string]
.TP
.B bh_str2hex [-x] [-0x] [-c] [-s] [string]
.TP
.B bh_strxor [key] [string]
.TP
.B bh_unbase64 [string]
.TP
.B bh_unmd5 [md5 string]
.TP
.B bh_utf8table 
.TP
.B bh_websearch [-t mail|file|phone|free] [-p number] [-d domainname] [-e file ext] [-s string]
.TP
.B bh_wscan [-i iface] [-oui] [-mac] 
.TP
.B bh_xor [number]
.TP
.B bh_zipmal [filename]

.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
.BR bh_asc2dec
Converts ascii bytes in decimal equivalent.
.TP
.BR bh_asciitable
Show ascii table.
.TP
.BR bh_asm2sc
Generates shellcode based on asm file.
.TP
.BR bh_asmgrep
Search assembly instructions into executable binaries and prints 4 instructions 'round'. You must be attentive to the syntax (Intel or AT&T) utilized in your environment..
.TP
.BR bh_asminfo
Prints on the screen the information assembly syntax.
.TP
.BR bh_bin2dec
Convert binary to decimal equivalent.
.TP
.BR bh_bin2ip
Convert an binary into its equivalent decimal.
.TP
.BR bh_bkp
Do a quick backup of a file
.TP
.BR bh_charcalc
Carries out calculations between special characters and numbers.
.TP
.BR bh_dec2asc
Converts decimal to ascii bytes equivalent.
.TP
.BR bh_dec2bin
Convert decimal to binary equivalent.
.TP
.BR bh_dec2hex
Convert decimal to hex equivalent.
.TP
.BR bh_dumpmem
Creates file on disk with memory contents of a process.
.TP
.BR bh_find
Find file by mime type exe, msi, txt, zip.
.TP
.BR bh_hashes
Generates hash all informed files.
.TP 
.BR bh_hex2bin
Convert hex to binary equivalent.
.TP
.BR bh_hex2dec
Convert hex to decimal equivalent.
.TP
.BR bh_hex2str
Converts one or more bytes into a hex string. Accepts as input all output formats str2hex function.
.TP
.BR bh_hexcalc
Makes calculation of numbers in hexadecimal and gives the result in hexadecimal.
.TP
.BR bh_hostcalc
Returns the total number of hosts based on subnet mask informed.
.TP
.BR bh_intel
Enable or Disable instructions intel.
.TP
.BR bh_ip2bin
Convert an ip address into its equivalent binary.
.TP
.BR bh_ip2geo
Approximately determines geographical location of an ip address or domain name.
.TP
.BR bh_isalnum
Determines whether string or char is alphanumeric.
.TP
.BR bh_isalpha
Determines whether string or char is alpha.
.TP
.BR bh_isascii
Deterimines wheter char is ascii char.
.TP
.BR bh_isdigit
Determines whether string or char is digit.
.TP
.BR bh_isgraph
Determines whether char is graph.
.TP
.BR bh_islower
Determines whether char or string is lowercase.
.TP
.BR bh_ispunct
Determines whther char is punctuation.
.TP
.BR bh_isupper
Determines whether char or string is uppercase.
.TP
.BR bh_isxdigit
Determines whether string or char is hex digit.
.TP
.BR bh_matrix
Matrix because is fun.
.TP
.BR bh_md5
Calculates the MD5 hash of a string (without considering the caracetere newline) or a file if it exists.
.TP
.BR bh_myip
Show external ipaddress.
.TP
.BR bh_pow
 Raises a number to a power.
.TP
.BR bh_rotall
Encrypts/Decrypts string with the Cesar Cipher using n shifts to the right.
.TP
.BR bh_rotall
Encrypts/Decrypts string with the Cesar Cipher using n shifts to the right.
.TP
.BR bh_sc2asm
Asm code generated through a shellcode. 
.TP
.BR bh_shl
 Push bits to the left by a number.
.TP
.BR bh_shr
 Push bits to the right by a number.
.TP
.BR bh_sitedl
Download all site.
.TP
.BR bh_skel_c
Shows the basic structure of a code C.
.TP
.BR bh_skel_python
Show the basic structure of a code Python.
.TP
.BR bh_str2hexr
Converts string in hex byte equivalent to each char (hex string).
.TP
.BR bh_str2hex 
Converts string in hex byte equivalent to each char (hex string).
.TP
.BR bh_strxor
Calculates exclusive OR of each character in a string with a key.
.TP
.BR bh_unbase64
Decodes a BASE64 string.
.TP
.BR bh_unmd5
Attempts to discover the string that generated the MD5 hash using the internet (requires you to be connected).
.TP
.BR bh_utf8table
Show ascii table.
.TP 
.BR bh_websearch
Uses google base to extract information such as sql files, txt or anything else that can server to extract information, other functionality are finding email phones.
.TP
.BR bh_wscan
Displays the list of wireless networks with chanell, bss, signal, ssid and others
.TP
.BR bh_xor
 Calculates the exclusive OR between two numbers.
.TP
.BR bh_zipmal
Compress file in zip format with password protecting.

.SH EXAMPLES
para fazer isso
.IP
bh_fazisso

.PP
Pra fazer aquilo
.IP
bh_fazaquilo

.SH AUTHORS
Written by Fernando Mercês and Wesley Henrique

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please, check the latest development code and report at https://github.com/merces/bashacks/issues

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2014 bashack authors. Licensed GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
