.TH BASHACKS 1 "November 2023" "bashacks 1.5" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
bashacks \- collection of useful bash functions for programmers

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Bashacks
.nf
.fam C
Is a collection of Bash functions for UNIX systems, designed to simplify low-level
operations. Ideal for programmers, security analysts, and users seeking concise
commands, enhancing script readability and productivity.
.fam T
.fi
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bashacks
[\fIOPTIONS\fP] \fIARGUMENTS\fP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help message and exit.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Display version information and exit.

.SH USAGE
.nf
.fam C
The following Bashacks functions are available. Type the function name and press TAB
to auto-complete:
.B "Examples of Options": bh_"TAB"
\fBbh_asc2dec\fR        \fBbh_cmd_sha1\fR       \fBbh_hex2bin\fR        \fBbh_rot\fR            \fBbh_str2hex\fR
\fBbh_asciitable\fR     \fBbh_cmd_sha256\fR     \fBbh_hex2dec\fR        \fBbh_rot13\fR          \fBbh_str2hexr\fR
\fBbh_asmgrep\fR        \fBbh_cmd_sha512\fR     \fBbh_hex2str\fR        \fBbh_rotall\fR         \fBbh_strxor\fR
\fBbh_asminfo\fR        \fBbh_cmd_wget\fR       \fBbh_hexcalc\fR        \fBbh_secretfile\fR     \fBbh_unshort\fR
\fBbh_bin2dec\fR        \fBbh_dec2asc\fR        \fBbh_hostcalc\fR       \fBbh_sharefile\fR      \fBbh_urldecode\fR
\fBbh_bin2ip\fR         \fBbh_dec2bin\fR        \fBbh_ip2bin\fR         \fBbh_skel_c\fR         \fBbh_urlencode\fR
\fBbh_bkp\fR            \fBbh_dec2hex\fR        \fBbh_ipinfo\fR         \fBbh_skel_go\fR        \fBbh_utf8table\fR
\fBbh_charcalc\fR       \fBbh_epoch\fR          \fBbh_ipisblocked\fR    \fBbh_skel_latex\fR     \fBbh_wgetr\fR
\fBbh_cmd_disasm\fR     \fBbh_findmime\fR       \fBbh_md5rename\fR      \fBbh_skel_python\fR    \fBbh_zerostring\fR
\fBbh_cmd_md5\fR        \fBbh_hashcrack\fR      \fBbh_myip\fR           \fBbh_skel_yara\fR      \fBbh_zipmal\fR
\fBbh_cmd_sed_ext\fR    \fBbh_hashes\fR         \fBbh_replacestring\fR  \fBbh_str2d\fR
.fam T
.fi

.SH "CONTENTS
.nf
.fam C
The Bashacks pack is organized into several subcategories for
easy location of specific functions. Each subcategory addresses
a set specific functionalities. Below the main subcategories are
available.

These subcategories help organize the package's functionalities,
making it easier for users to find and use tools wanted.
.fam T
.fi

.TP 2
.SH "Crypto"
Functions related to cryptography and hash manipulation.

\fBbh_hashcrack\fR - Analyzes various types of hashes.

\fBbh_rot\fR - Encrypts/Decrypts a string with the Caesar Cipher using n shifts to the right.

\fBbh_strxor\fR - Calculates the exclusive OR of each character in a string with a key.

\fBFor more details, see:\fR
.UR file:///usr/share/doc/bashacks-doc/html/crypto.html
.UE


.TP 2
.SH "Filesystem"
This section generally contains functions for file manipulation.

\fBbh_bkp\fR - Performs a quick backup of the file using the current date.

\fBbh_findmime\fR - Finds files by MIME type.

\fBbh_hashes\fR - Generates the md5, sha1, and sha256 message digest of the file or list of files.

\fBbh_md5rename\fR - Converts the filename to the equivalent md5 hash.

\fBbh_secretfile\fR - Use it to compress and send files, automatically generating a password.

\fBbh_sharefile\fR - Loads a file and provides a unique URL to access it without a password.

\fBbh_zipmal\fR - Compresses the file in zip format with password protection. The password is "virus".

\fBFor more details, see:\fR
.UR file:///usr/share/doc/bashacks-doc/html/filesystem.html
.UE


.TP 2
.SH "Math"
Mathematical operations functions.

\fBbh_bin2dec\fR - Converts binary to decimal.

\fBbh_charcalc\fR - Performs operations with characters (char).

\fBbh_dec2bin\fR - Converts decimal to binary.

\fBbh_dec2hex\fR - Converts decimal to hexadecimal.

\fBbh_hex2bi\fR - Converts hexadecimal to binary.

\fBbh_hex2dec\fR - Converts hexadecimal to decimal.

\fBbh_hexcalc\fR - In the same way as \fBbh_charcalc\fR, however, works here with hexdigits.

\fBFor more details, see:\fR
.UR file:///usr/share/doc/bashacks-doc/html/math.html
.UE


.TP 2
.SH "Net"
Network operations and related tools.

\fBbh_bin2ip\fR - Convert a binary string into a network IP address.

\fBbh_hostcalc\fR - Enter a network CIDR mask and determine the number of hosts.

\fBbh_ip2bin\fR - Convert a network IP address into a binary string.

\fBbh_myip\fR - Returns the external IP address of your network connection.

\fBbh_wgetr\fR - Operates recursively, building on a previous instance of wget.

\fBbh_ipinfo\fR - Queries ipinfo.io and returns basic information about an address.

\fBbh_unshort\fR - Makes it possible to unzip a URL.

\fBbh_ipisblacklisted\fR - Finds the IP on a blacklist, returning [T] if positive and [F] if opposite.

\fBFor more details, see:\fR
.UR file:///usr/share/doc/bashacks-doc/html/net.html
.UE


.TP 2
.SH "Programming"
Session for the creation of facilitators for development in cli

\fBbh_skel_c\fR - Generates on the standard output a "C" skeleton.

\fBbh_skel_go\fR - Generates on the standard output a "go" skeleton.

\fBbh_skel_latex\fR - Generates on the standard output a "LaTeX" skeleton.

\fBbh_skel_python\fR - Generates on the standard output a "python" skeleton.

\fBbh_skel_yara\fR - Generates on the standard output a "yara" skeleton.

\fBFor more details, see:\fR
.UR file:///usr/share/doc/bashacks-doc/html/programming.html
.UE


.TP 2
.SH "Reversing"
Reverse engineering utilities

\fBbh_asmgrep\fR - With the binary, attempts to find assembly instructions and prints 4 lines around.

\fBbh_asminfo\fR - Displays information about assembly instructions. Internet connection is required for help.

\fBbh_replacestring\fR - Finds and replaces occurrences of a string in the file.

\fBbh_zerostring\fR - Replaces occurrences with zero bytes in a block or a common file.

\fBFor more details, see:\fR
.UR file:///usr/share/doc/bashacks-doc/html/reversing.html
.UE


.TP 2
.SH "String"
Functions for string manipulation.

\fBbh_asc2dec\fR - Performs the conversion of a character into its decimal equivalent.

\fBbh_asciitable\fR - Displays the ASCII table in the terminal.

\fBbh_dec2asc\fR - Equivalent in ASCII for decimal numbers.

\fBbh_hex2str\fR - Converts one or more bytes into a hex string.

\fBbh_str2dec\fR - Converts one or more bytes to their decimal equivalent.

\fBbh_str2hexr\fR - Converts a string to its hex byte equivalent for each character (hex string).

\fBbh_str2hex\fR - Converts a string to its hex byte equivalent for each character (hex string).

\fBbh_urldecode\fR - Decodes strings to web standard human-readable format.

\fBbh_urlencode\fR - Encodes strings with bh_urlencode to web standard.

\fBbh_utf8table\fR - Displays the UTF-8 table.

\fBFor more details, see:\fR
.UR file:///usr/share/doc/bashacks-doc/html/string.html
.UE


.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.fam C
\fBbh_hascrack\fR [hash string]
usage:
$ bh_hashcrack e10adc3949ba59abbe56e057f20f883e
123456


\fBbh_rot\fR [int] [string]
usage:
$ bh_rot 3 terra
whuud


\fBbh_strxor\fR [key] [string]
usage:
$ bh_strxor 15 'hack'
gnld


\fBbh_bkp\fR [filename]
usage:
$ bh_bkp bashacks.sh
$ ls -1
bashacks.sh
bashacks.sh.20160122


\fBbh_findmime\fR -[type] [directory]
usage:
$ bh_findmime -exe ~/Downloads
/home/bashacks/Downloads//binario.ex


\fBbh_hashes\fR [filename or list of files]
usage:
$ bh_hashes bashacks.sh
5dab37cac730088fd959f8292636fc9b bashacks.sh
38be74a4e710a3eeb24b4fa2015cea990d4eda67 bashacks.sh
587b713bb31e3bf32de0b734805c3dd247f49a14cd9e9a5f35008e4f620d3f82 bashacks.sh


\fBbh_md5rename\fR [filename or list of files]
usage:
$ touch ment.bin
$ bh_md5rename ment.bin
$ ls
d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e


\fBbh_bin2dec\fR [binary]
usage:
$ bh_bin2dec 1111111


\fBbh_charcalc\fR [char/string] [operator] [number]
usage:
$ bh_charcalc A + 2
C

$ bh_charcalc A \\* 255
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA


\fBbh_dec2bin\fR [decimal]
usage:
$ bh_dec2bin 255
11111111


\fBbh_dec2hex\fR [decimal]
$ bh_dec2hex 10
a


\fBbh_hex2dec\fR [one or more hex digit]
usage:
$ bh_hex2dec A
10


\fBbh_hex2cal\fR [hex digit] [operator] [hex digit]
usage:
$ bh_hex2dec A \\* 2
0xa0


\fBbh_bin2ip\fR [binary string]
usage:
$ bh_bin2ip 00001010.00001010.00000000.00000001
10.10.0.1


\fBbh_hostcalc\fR [mask cidr]
usage:
$ bh_hostcalc 24
256


\fBbh_wgetr\fR [url]
usage:
$ bh_wgetr http://www.mentebinaria.com.br/artigos/0x1e/0x1e-maqengrevwin.html
www.mentebinaria.com.br/art 100%[==========================================>]   8.73K  --.-KB/s   in 0s
www.mentebinaria.com.br/rob 100%[==========================================>]     361  --.-KB/s   in 0s
www.mentebinaria.com.br/art 100%[==========================================>]  66.18K   132KB/s   in 0.5s
$ ls -1
www.mentebinaria.com.br
$ ls -1 www.mentebinaria.com.br/artigos/0x1e/
0x1e-maqengrevwin.html
desktop.png


\fBbh_ipinfo\fR [ipaddress]
usage:
$ bh_ipinfo 8.8.8.8
{
 "ip": "8.8.8.8",
 "hostname": "dns.google",
 "anycast": true,
 "city": "Mountain View",
 "region": "California",
 "country": "US",
 "loc": "37.4056,-122.0775",
 "org": "AS15169 Google LLC",
 "postal": "94043",
 "timezone": "America/Los_Angeles",
 "readme": "https://ipinfo.io/missingauth"
}


\fBbh_ipblacklisted\fR [ipaddress]
usage:
$ bh_ipblacklist 77.xxx.xx.xx
== 77.xxx.xx.xx ==
[F]    TALOS
[F]    Malc0de
[F]    Projecthoneypot.org
[F]    blocklist.de
[T]    Alienvault
[F]    SANS-TOPSOURCE


\fBbh_skel_c\fR
usage:
$ bh_skel_c
#include <stdio.h>

int main(int argc, char *argv[]) {

    return 0;
}


\fBbh_skel_latex\fR
usage:
$ bh_skel_latex
\edocumentclass{article}

\eusepackage[english]{babel}
\eusepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\eusepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}

\eauthor{}
\etitle{}


\fBbh_skel_python\fR
usage:
$ bh_skel_python
#!/usr/bin/env python
# *-* coding: utf-8 *-*

if __name__ == '__main__':


\fBbh_asmgrep\fR [asm instruction] [binary path]
usage:
$ bh_asmgrep mov /bin/ls

409f2e:66 90                : xchg   %ax,%ax
409f30:80 7c 13 ff 2f       : cmpb   $0x2f,-0x1(%rbx,%rdx,1)
409f35:48 8d 42 ff          : lea    -0x1(%rdx),%rax
409f39:75 08                : jne    409f43 <__sprintf_chk@plt+0x7783>
409f3b:48 89 c2             : mov    %rax,%rdx
409f3e:48 39 d5             : cmp    %rdx,%rbp
409f41:75 ed                : jne    409f30 <__sprintf_chk@plt+0x7770>
409f43:48 83 c4 08          : add    $0x8,%rsp
--


\fBbh_asminfo\fR [asm instruction]
usage:
$ bh_asminfo mov
mov
|Code   |Mnemonic        |Description                                         |
|88 / r |MOV r/m8, r8    |Move r8 to r/m8                                     |
|89 / r |MOV r/m16, r16  |Move r16 to r/m16                                   |
|89 / r |MOV r/m32, r32  |Move r32 to r/m32                                   |
|8A / r |MOV r8, r/m8    |Move r/m8 to r8                                     |
|8B / r |MOV r16, r/m16  |Move r/m16 to r16                                   |


\fBbh_replacestring\fR [file] [string to search] [string to replace]
usage:
$ hexdump -C MB_DEV

00000690  2e 00 54 00 58 00 54 00  2e 00 00 00 73 00 77 00  |..T.X.T.....s.w.|
000006a0  e5 45 53 54 45 54 7e 31  53 57 58 20 00 65 a1 9b  |.ESTET~1SWX .e..|
000006b0  8b 54 8b 54 00 00 a1 9b  8b 54 00 00 00 00 00 00  |.T.T.....T......|
000006c0  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  |................|
*
00005e00  4d 65 6e 74 65 42 69 6e  61 72 69 61 0a 00 00 00  |MenteBinaria....|
00005e10  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  |................|


\fBbh_zerostring\fR [file] [string to replace]
usage:
# hexdump -C MB_DEV

00005860  41 4d 00 42 00 2d 00 66  00 69 00 0f 00 a1 6c 00  |AM.B.-.f.i....l.|
00005870  65 00 2e 00 74 00 78 00  74 00 00 00 00 00 ff ff  |e...t.x.t.......|
00005880  4d 42 2d 46 49 4c 45 20  54 58 54 20 00 41 26 be  |MB-FILE TXT .A&.|
00005890  69 54 69 54 00 00 26 be  69 54 05 00 1b 00 00 00  |iTiT..&.iT......|


\fBbh_asc2dec\fR [char]
usage:
$  bh_asc2dec a
97


\fBbh_dec2asc\fR [decimal]
usage:
$ bh_dec2asc 65
A


\fBbh_hex2str\fR [hex string]
usage:
$ bh_hex2str '72 6f 63 6b'
rock


\fBbh_str2hex\fR [-x] [-0x] [-c] [string]
usage:
$ bh_str2hex 'Fernando'
46 65 72 6e 61 6e 64 6f
$ bh_str2hex -0x 'Fernado'
0x46 0x65 0x72 0x6e 0x61 0x6e 0x64 0x6f


\fBbh_urldecode\fR [encoded string]
usage:
$ bh_urlencode '/zzz!@.#'
%2fzzz%21%40%2e%23
.fam T
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
For more information about bashacks visit:
https://github.com/merces/bashacks/tree/master/doc/source

.SH AUTHOR
.fam C
.nf
Developed by Fernando Merces <contato@mentebinaria.com.br>
.PP
This manual page was written by Josenison Ferreira da Silva <nilsonfsilva@hotmail.com>
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
.fam T
.fi
